RESEARCH: A dialogical look at the formation of the academic literacy university professor.

OBJECTIVE: Investigation of good literacy practices in universities.



THIAGO: Good afternoon.

ADRIANE: You have been invited, to participate in one, research on academic literacy, and training of the university professor. It's good that you accepted, I'm very happy, this experience will contribute, enough to enrich, the data that we need, to do the analysis, later. Our interview will have two parts, okay, a first part that we will talk a little, about your professional experience, and some aspects of your life even, and then, in a second moment we will talk about the issues of academic literacy even, okay. So I was wondering, that you talk a little about yourself, it's full name, age, marital status, it's family composition, if you have a child, you have no child, right, where you live, it's the courses you took, your training, both academic, and in the graduation. It is if you want to start, then I'll add that are, some very punctual questions, teaching time in university, disciplines, anyway.

THIAGO: Okay, okay, all right, so. So I'm Professor Thiago Boaventura, that's my name, there's nothing else, it's not artistic, (laughs), I'm 33 years old, I'm single, at the moment, I want to untangle, and ..., I have an 8-year-old son, I also live with my parents. So in this house that I live in today, it's me, my parents, my father and my mother, and two other brothers, my son stays with me four days a week, and the other four he gets his mother, right, we have custody, shared, and....., about my personal life is this, ahh, my apartment is almost ready , last week I went to do the survey, so soon, thank you, so it's a little more time yet, right, leave everything ok, it will take a little. I graduated in Geography, from the Federal University of Paraná, I graduated in 2009, two thousand and nine I graduated, then time was passing, that at first I did not want to be a teacher, but life i take myself, for this course of Geography, is another story, very long now, to tell, but the situation, financial made me choose a course , less crowded, that's the truth, and then I was focused on the bachelor's degree, and bachelor's degree, bachelor's degree, running away from education, until I, the search for scholarship, mentoring, I ended up working with professor Laura, in the area of special education, napni, which exists to this day, and I fell in love with pounds, and special education, ai felt like working at school , it was a show, you know, I really like students, the school environment, and I did a special graduation, puc, an inclusive special education. If you think about that moment, 2010, 2011, that's when I started, finallittle, it's the second half of 2010. It was a moment like this, i was bubbling the inclusion, because, the national inclusion policy of 2008, then had that period of implementation, training, very super cool, I ended up doing, and, always updating myself, in competition pounds, always doing several extension courses in the area of deafness, was, this my area even, until participating in courses, was a course monitor in the area of deafness , I finished the put, and ... I was a little, so, quiet, enjoying my life, teacher, state, I spent, in the contest, only there comes a time that life charges you, right, people who like research, who, not content, to stay only in this conversation, we want to register, want to investigate things, gave me an inside, so in 2016. I said my God, right, I'm here, I need to participate in this, I need to write, I need to know what research is, in graduation, we don't know what research is, we have one, an approximation, but there is no time for you to live the research, how we get it, how we try to live the research, in the master's and in the doctorate. And then, in 2017, I entered, in the master's degree, there from the federal, in education, in the line of difference and social inequalities, in 2019, I concluded, 1 year now, made a year, a few days, is, and my research, it was, it is, carried out, within the scope of we know, and understand a little, how is education, not formal, with, is, deaf people , and gay's, (pause).

ADRIANE: Congratulations. It's you work, besides UNIFACEAR, works only as a teacher, right? That's quite something already, but so, there are many teachers, that you interview, who have another job, other than, in education, essentially in education.

THIAGO: So, after I did the research, I gave a stop, now I'm, coming back, with dance and events, right, I like a lot, did a lot, animation, events, e.., yes, talking to UNIFACEAR, I was, at the head, and Went to the core, and last week, I was called back to, work in the core and, I , I will accept, I will work, in, in the core of the southern metropolitan area, I'm already in transition, probably Thursday, I'm no longer in class again.

ADRIANE: But, is it in the core of Araucaria?

THIAGO: Core of the southern metropolitan area, it takes care of all cities, is.., of the municipalities, here in the metropolitan area of the southern area. So Quitandinha, Balsa Nova, Araucaria, Lapa, Contenda, (laughs), then, I'll take care of the training part. Teacher training, but through the use of technology, there are several applications, programs for mathematics, for Portuguese, for history, geography, I like it a lot, and then I saw it, saw my channel, saw that I like it, invited me, and, I accepted this challenge, at least until December, I will be, acting in this part,

ADRIANE: Cool, cool. A real challenge, and you work a lot, right, you work all day, like, 40 hours, in the state?

THIAGO: 40 hours, in the state, and facear, is.., theoretically, they would be, 20 hours, but like us, is with this regime, ai de.., aula.., ah, remote teaching system, and also hears a reduction, in the workload, more no, is 20 hours even, dedication is 20 hours a week, then gives 60 hours worked.

ADRIANE: And in higher education, have you ever worked in another institution, or just, at UNIFACEAR? 

THIAGO: I've worked, on projects, but as a teacher, no, I don't think so, things have been face- up since 2014, we're in 2020.

ADRIANE: (Ham, ham), and what courses have you taught at UNIFACEAR, which you have taught as well?

THIAGO: Are, few experiences, I had experience with HR, and pedagogy, HR, I took the discipline of people management, now pedagogy, it was one, a long,,. route, you know well, varied my range of performance, (laughs), (long laughs), because, I started with special education and, pounds, and indeed are, my disciplines, but we know that this process of, i don't know if we can say this, right, but the system, liberal ends up affecting even, ah, academic training, and the teacher ends up, acting in different areas. So I've already taken it, fundamentals of methodology, physical education, mathematics, science, art, ,,. Fundamentals and methodologies, of special education, inclusive, right, (aaa,,.), structure and functioning, teaching, educational planning, history of education, education and work.

ADRIANE: Wow, a lot. 

THIAGO: I think these are, ah and,,. Diversity education. That's the ones.

ADRIANE: And in your training too, right?

THIAGO: Yes, yes,,. It's box touch, accepts not accepted, needs no need, I accept and go. Study for the guys.

ADRIANE: And now we will enter, in this second part, will talk about your experience, with reading and writing, and orality, of the students? Okay, yes, what kinds of texts, textual genres, do you usually present to students, in your classes, article, book chapter, essay, what kind of text, do you usually work with them?

THIAGO: Okay, I like, I like to bring, different texts on the same, the same theme, right, my example is like this, I like to start the, or, semester, with a report, you know, something that shows that it is part, of the daily life of the student, especially in the area of special education, in the area of diversities, has a lot to do with my training , I like it a lot, that yes, because I, I believe that education, it does, it occurs, from the moment you, if you end up captivated, somehow the student, and.., then I use a lot, reports, from different blog's, blog's also I like a lot, you know, has many parents, professionals, who brings information a little more accessible, pro student, that scientific article, that the scientific article , also, I always use, but we see that the student, he is very reluctant, he did not even read the article, but he already finds it difficult, because of the formal structure that he presents, and then I speak, remember what we talked about, it is written here, then we bring that knowledge of a report, a blog, even , e.., I make this bridge of YouTubers videos, as these authors are written, are bringing, those authors who are bringing, those articles listed to comwrite, the scientific article, this is always how I work, always from the most everyday, a little bit of common sense for us, arrive at this more scientific language.

ADRIANE: Okay, and what are the strategies that you, you use, you read in the room, with them, they already have to come read from home, with reading from home, with these things?

THIAGO: I try everything, it's a different strategy all week, at the beginning of the year that they are more, the semester, right, are more willing, more full of energy, and I ask to come with reading, already from home, right, I give two weeks, for the text, I say, Oh people go, read this here, look that cool, be aware of it , I give a little spolerzinho, for them to guide a little, I know that each one has its own interpretation, my intention is to promote, give not hand even, vamo, this here is important to you. There are moments i reserve
